World population map by Nicol Heijtbrink

The main point that I would like to get across to a viewer of this visualisation is the distribution of people around the world and that large countries do not necessarily have large populations. 
The map already shows the distribution of people around the world, and by hovering over a country the country name and its population are shown in a popup label. This map uses a sequential multi-hue color scheme from http://colorbrewer2.org/#type=sequential&scheme=YlGnBu&n=7 to encode the populations with colours.
When a country is clicked the user has an option between a pie chart or a bar chart so the user can choose which visualisation he or she prefers. The colour of this button was chosen so that it matches the map.
When pie chart is selected a pie chart appears in which the part of the pie that corresponds to the selected country is highlighted in red. The rest of the pie chart is coloured with a diverging colour scheme, red highlighting was chosen for contrast and visibility, the red jumps out and therefore makes it easy to see which pie part is selected. For extra contrast and visibility a white stroke was chosen to surround the highlighted pie part. A nice black bold label occurs starting in the pie part to show the selected country name and the percentage of the world population that lives there.
If the bar chart option is chosen a very simple bar chart appears where all bars are the same blue as used in the map for medium populated countries. This design was chosen for consistency, simplicity and readability. The country that is selected is shown in a red bar with a label for its country name and population. On the x-axis there are countries, but this was deliberately left out because there are so many countries it would not be clear and readable if all country names were displayed on the x-axis. The y axis has also been left out deliberately because only the first 2 countries would have readable values, but the last 50 countries would not have readable y-values even if there was an y-axis, therefore I chose to specifically display the x and y value in a label only for the highlighted country. 

Source of the data:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_and_dependencies_by_population